Understanding what customers are really seeking from you and what they're not helps you approach
these interactions with the right mindset. Let's start with what customers are seeking
when they ask to speak with you. They want credibility from the actual expert. As one
customer put it, I want to hear it from the person who actually knows. You have credibility
that others don't. They want transparency and unfiltered information. They want the
truth about their car, not a filtered or simplified version. They want technical depth.
They have questions the service advisor may not be able to answer at the level they need.
They want to build trust through direct conversation. They need to feel confident
in their decision, especially when facing expensive repairs. And many want shared
enthusiasm. They want to talk to someone who understands and appreciates what makes
special. Now, what are they not seeking? They're not looking to negotiate price with you.
Some situations vary, but that's the service advisor's responsibility, not yours.
They're not trying to catch you in a lie or challenge your diagnosis aggressively.
When they ask questions, they're seeking honest answers, not looking for confrontation.
They're not expecting you to resolve warranty disputes. Management handles those
situations and they're not trying to waste your time. Most customers genuinely
respect your expertise and value your input. Here's the key insight you need to remember.
Portia owners are often enthusiasts. They actually want to understand their vehicles.
They respect trustworthy technical expertise. For many of them, speaking with you is a
highlight of their service experience, not a complaint or a problem. Approach these
conversations with that understanding and they become much easier.